---
GENERATOR: 'Mozilla/4.79C-SGI [en] (X11; U; IRIX64 6.5 IP30) [Netscape]'
Generator: Microsoft Word 98
title: 2
---

**  Mesh Object**

 **cmo\_create**(cmo\_name,ierror)

  Create a new mesh object called **** cmo\_name
    ----------- -------------------------------
    cmo\_name   name of new mesh object
    ierror      error return - 0 if no errors
    ----------- -------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_get_intinfo**cmo\_get\_intinfo(**ioption,cmo\_name,iout,lout,itype,ierror)

  Get values of scalar attribute of the mesh object.

  **ioption ** is the name of the mesh object attribute whose value is
  to be retrieved; the information retrieved may be one of these key
  words or it may be the name of a user supplied integer attribute 
  (generated by a **[cmo\_addatt](commands/cmo/cmo_addatt.md)**
  command):
    ----------- ------------------------------------------------
    ioption     number\_of\_attributes
                nnodes (number of nodes in the mesh)
                nelements (number of elements in the mesh)
                nfaces (number of unique topological facets)
                nedges (number of unique edges in mesh)
                mbndry (boundary node flag value)
                ndimensions\_topo (topological dimensionality)
                ndimensions\_geom
                nodes\_per\_element
                edges\_per\_element
                faces\_per\_element
    cmo\_name   name of mesh object
    iout        value of attribute returned
    lout        length of attribute always 1
    itype       type of attribute always 1
    ierror      return flag (0= no errors)
    ----------- ------------------------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_get_info**cmo\_get\_info**(ioption, cmo\_name, iout, lout,
 itype, ierror)

  Return pointer to array attributes.

  **ioption** - name of mesh object attribute.  It may be one of these
  keywords or a users supplied array attribute.
    --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
    ioption (key words)   isetwd ( pset membership information)
                          ialias (alternate node numbers)
                          imt1 (node material)
                          itp1 (node type)
                          icr1 (constraint numbers for nodes)
                          isn1 (child, parent node correspondence)
                          ign1 (igeneration numbers for nodes)
                          xic, yic, zic (node coordinates
                          itetclr (integer array of element material)
                          itettyp (geometry of element)
                          xtetwd (eltset membership information)
                          itetoff (index into itet array for an element)
                          jtetoff (index into jtet array for an element)
                          itet (node vertices for each element)
                          jtet (element connectivity)
    cmo\_name             name of mesh object
    iout                  pointer to the attribute if the attribute is a vector
    lout                  length of array associated with this pointer 
    itype                 type of attribute always 4
    ierror                return flag (0= no errors)
    --------------------- -------------------------------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_set_info**cmo\_set\_info**(ioption,cmo\_name,data,lin,itype,ierror)

 Set values of integer  attribute of the mesh object.

   ----------- -----------------------------------------
   ioption     attribute name
   cmo\_name   name of mesh object
   data        value of the scalar attribute to be set
   lin         length code of attribute (1)
   itype       type of attribute (1)
   ----------- -----------------------------------------

 []{#cmo_get_name**cmo\_get\_name**(cmo\_name,ierror)

  Get the name of the current mesh object.

  cmo\_name                         name of current mesh object

 []{#cmo_set_name**cmo\_set\_name**(cmo\_name,ierror)

  Set the name of the current mesh object.

  

 **cmo\_get\_attribute\_name**(cmo\_name,attribute\_index,attribute\_name,ierror)

  This routine is useful when looping through all the attributes of a
  mesh object. To get the number of attributes use
  cmo\_get\_intinfo('number\_of\_attributes').

 

 []{#cmo_newlen**cmo\_newlen**(cmo\_name,ierror)

  Adjust memory associated with mesh object. Must be called whenever
  the size of the mesh is adjusted in order to provide memory to the
  pointered attributes.

  

 **cmo\_release**(cmo\_name,ierror)

  Release a mesh object called cmo\_name and release its memory.
    ------------ -------------------------------
    cmo\_name    name of mesh object 
    ierror       error return - 0 if no errors
    ------------ -------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_get_attinfo**cmo\_get\_attinfo** (ioption, cmo\_name, iout,
 rout, cout, ipout, lout,itype, ierror)

 Retrieve a mesh object value,  the attribute type will determine what
 is returned.

   
    ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    ioption                 name of mesh object attribute 
    cmo\_name               name of mesh object
    iout,rout,cout,ipout    returned value of attribute - only one of the four will be returned depending on attribute type
    ierror                  error return - 0 if no errors
    itype                   attribute type returned ( 1= integer, 2=real, 3=character, 4=pointer)
    ----------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 **cmo\_get\_length**(att\_name,cmo\_name,length,irank,ierror)

 Retrieves the integer values of the requested mesh object attributes
 length and rank.

   
    ----------- -------------------------------
    att\_name   name of mesh object attribute
    cmo\_name   name of mehs object
    length      length of attribute (integer)
    irank       rank of attribute (integer)
    ierror      return flag (0 = no errors)
    ----------- -------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_set_attinfo**cmo\_set\_attinfo**(ioption,cmo\_name,idata,rdata,cdata,type\_data,ierror)

 Set mesh object attribute values for integer, real or character
 attributes.

   
    -------------------- ------------------------------------------------
    ioption              name of attribute
    cmo\_name            name of mesh object 
    idata,rdata,cdata    value to be set depending on type of attribute
    type\_data           type of data, 1=integer, 2=real, 3=character
    ierror               return flag (0 = no errors)
    -------------------- ------------------------------------------------
 
 []{#cmo_get_attparam**cmo\_get\_attparam**(ioption,cmo\_name,index,ctype,crank,clen,cinter,cpers,cio,ierror)

 Return attribute definition:

   
    ----------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    ioption     character string that gives name of attribute.  This is required input parameter
    cmo\_name   name of mesh object. This is an input parameter that is usually a character variable that contains the name of the mesh object.
    index       attribute number 
    ctype       character string that gives type of attribute:  'INT' ,' REAL'   'CHARACTER', ' VINT (Vector of integers),  'VDOUBLE' (vector of reals),  'VCHAR' (vector of characters)
    crank       character string that gives rank of attribute: e.g.'scalar', 'vector', or the name of a user defined INT attribute.
    clen        chracter string that gives length of attribute: e.g. 'nnodes', 'nelements', 'scalar', 'vector', or a user defined INT attribute
    cinter      character string that gives interpolation method: e.g. 'linear', 'log'
    cpers       character string that gives persistence: 'permanent' or 'temporary'
    cio         character string that gives i/o flags (see [cmo/modatt](commands/cmo/cmo_modatt.md) for detailed expanation)
    ierror      error flag ( 0= no errors)
    ----------- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 **EXAMPLES:**

   

  **call get\_attinfo** ('ipointi', acmo, firstpt, rout, cout, ipout,
  itype, ierror)

  The value of the mesh object attribute ipointi wil be returned in
  the variable called firstpt.  A 1 will be returned in itype.
 
  **cmo\_get\_attinfo**('geom\_name', cmoa, iout,rout,gname,
  ipout,itype,ierror)

  The value of the mesh object attribute called geom\_name in the mesh
  cmoa will be returned in the variable gname.  A 3 will be returned
  in itype.
 
  **cmo\_get\_attparam**('ipointi', cmoa, index,
  ctype,crank,clen,cinter,cpers,cio,ierror)

  Returns: index=37, ctype='INT', crank='scalar',  clen=  'scalar',
  cinter=  'constant',  cpers =   'permanent',cio='l'.
 
  **cmo\_set\_attinfo**('epsilonl', -def-, idum,
  epsilonnew,cdum,2,ierror)

  Changes the value of the current mesh object attribute named
  epsilonl to the value of the local real variable epsilonnew.

   

   

 
