---
title: "Section Grid Refinement Criteria and Algorithms"
tags: Grid Refinement Criteria  Algorithms 
---

## Grid Refinement and Criteria - Algorithms

-------------

The Refine command for the grid generation code LaGriT uses various criteria to tag grid elements for refinement or derefinement. When
  utilizing unstructured grids generated by LaGriT for applications such as solution of partial differential equations (PDE) for
  physical systems, it is desirable to modify the grid in order to optimize it for the particular problem based on several principles.
  The goal is to produce a better solution by creating better grid elements in various regions of the domain of the PDE's. This can
  involve physical criteria such as choosing smaller elements where
  physical variables are rapidly changing or larger elements where the
  variables are relatively constant in order not to waste computational effort. 

Grid elements can also be chosen on various geometric criteria related to their shape such as different
formulations of an aspect ratio. In time dependent problems, it may be necessary to refine and derefine the grid after each time step in
  order to follow various changing phenomena such as moving concentration fronts, shock waves, or advancing oxide layers. These
  factors make mesh refinement crucial to the practical solution of physical modeling problems. 

We therefore will detail several algorithms that are currently implemented for identifying which grid
  elements should be refined or derefined based on geometric and physical criteria. New algorithms will be added to this list and the
  current ones modified as we obtain feed back from users.

 
   [I. Edges: Each edge is tested separately to see if it should be
   tagged for refinement or derefinement](edges.md)
  
   [II. Faces: Each face is tested separately for refinement or
   derefinement.](refine_faces.md)
  
   [III. Tets: Each tetrahedron is tested separately for refinement
   or derefinement](refine_tets.md)
  
   IV. Face Edges: Same algorithms of the Faces category except all edges
   of the face are tagged for refinement or derefinement if the condition
   is met for the  face.
  
   V. Tet Edges: Same algorithms of the tet category except all edges
   of the tet are tagged for refinement or derefinement if the
   condition is met for the tet.

