---
GENERATOR: 'Mozilla/4.51C-SGI 
[en
] (X11; I; IRIX 6.5 IP32) 
[Netscape
]'
Generator: Microsoft Word 98
title: GENIEE
---

 

 **GENIEE**

  Generate element connectivity list (jtet) that gives neighbor
  information. Element connectivity is maintained by LaGriT, but can
  also be generated by the user with this command.

   
 
  The jtet attribute contains for each facet of an element the
  neighboring element and its local face.  For 3D grids the jtet
  relationship is reflexsive; each element-face pair has exactly one
  neighboring element-face pair.  For 2D grids the jtet relationship
  can include cycles; a triangle or quad edge may have many edge
  neighbors.  In this case the jtet is constructed as a closed cycle
  where the jtet of one element-edge pair will be a neighboring
  element-edge pair whose jtet wil be another neighboring element-edge
  pair and so on until all neighbors are included in the cycle exactly
  once.
 
  The jtet is constructed by looking at matching node numbers and will
  use the parent nodes if they exist.  Faces with matching node
  coordinates but different node numbers will not be matched.

  For hybrid grids that contain degenerate elements there are two
  options.  If the mesh object attribute jtet\_reduce\_nnd exists and
  is set to 1, then faces with repeated node numbers will be matched
  to faces with the same numbers but not repeated.  For example if a
  degenerate hex has a face 1 1 2 3 and there is an element (prism,
  tet, pyramid) with face 1 2 3 and if jtet\_reduce\_nnd is 1, then
  these faces will be matched.  Otherwise they will be marked as
  external boundary faces.

 FORMAT:

  geniee



