---
title: CREATEPTS/POISSON_DISK
tags: createpts poisson_disk
---

# CREATEPTS/POISSON_DISK 

-------

For 2D, uses input of a 2D planar polygon (convex or nonconvex) to create a set of uniform or variable spaced points using 2D Poisson Disk sampling. Optionally the vertices can be connected using Delaunay triangulation.
For 3D, the command generates a point distribution within a 3D volume using a Poisson-Disk sampling algorithm. This ensures a minimum distance between points, resulting in a "blue noise" distribution that is ideal for high-quality tetrahedralization.

This poisson_disk command is available for LaGriT versions V3.3.3 or greater.

## SYNTAX

<pre>
<b>createpts</b> /<b>poisson_disk</b> / [<b>2d_polygon</b> | <b>3d_box</b>] / mo_out / mo_polygon / h_spacing_scalar / [<b>connect</b> | <b>no_connect</b>] / [user_resolution.mlgi] / [ poisson_seed integer ] [ number_of_samples integer ] [ resample_sweeps integer ]
 
</pre>

### Argument 3. Geometry Options

**`2d_polygon`** character type indicating geometry for a 2D planar polygon, convex or nonconvex, in the XY plane. If the polygon you wish to distribute points in is not in XY plane, user must rotate it into XY plane.If the polygon is nonconvex, the algorithm may alter some small features depending on the details of the polygon and the user controlled input parameters. See examples below.

**`3d_box`** character type indicating geometry for 3D orthogonal box defined by (x,y,z) minimum and (x,y,z) maximum. (this is currently the only 3D geometry available) 

### Argument 4. (and 4b. for 2D) Mesh Object Names


`mo_out` name of output mesh object.  This user defined mesh object will contain the vertex distribution or triangulation created by the poisson_disk algorithm.


For 2D, a second mesh object for `mo_polygon` name of input mesh object that contains a 2D planar polygon in the XY plane.

### Argument 5. Spacing

`h_spacing_scalar` of type real. In the case of uniform resolution, this user provided real number defines the target spacing between vertices created by the Poisson-Disk algorithm. If the mesh is connected, the triangle edges will be approximately equal to `h_spacing_scalar`. In the case of variable resolution, `h_spacing_scalar` is used as a multiplier in the function defined in `user_resolution.mlgi`.

### Argument 6. Output Options

**`connect`**  will connect the vertices generated by Poisson disk algorithm connected. The output mesh object `mo_out`  will be a Delaunay triangulation.


**`no_connect`** the output mesh object  `mo_out` will contain the  vertices generated by Poisson disk algorithm  without triangle connectivity.


### Argument 7. Optional Resolution Arguments 

Default if this option is not used, the mesh will be uniform resolution defined by Argument 6 `h_spacing_scalar`.

`user_resolution.mlgi` is the name of a LaGriT control file for user defined  resolution.
The control file  defines a function h(x,y) that will be used to control vertex spacing in a variable resolution mesh. See examples below. 

When the variable  option is utilized, internal to the module a mesh object, ** mo_poi_h_field**, with a real scalar attribute, **h_field_att**, is created. By default for uniform resolution, **h_field_att**, is set to a constant value of `h_spacing_scalar`, however, when this option is exercised, the user must fill *h_field_att* with their own scalar field h(x,y). In addition, internal to the code the command:
```define / POI_H_FACTOR / h_spacing_scalar```
so one can access the value of `h_spacing_scalar` by using the variable **POI_H_FACTOR** in the LaGriT control file `user_resolution.mlgi` for setting variable resolution.

If a user script is provided as **Argument 7**, the sampling algorithm will query a local spacing value for every candidate point.

The algorithm looks for an attribute named **h_field_att** within a temporary mesh object named **mo_poi_h_field**. You can populate this attribute within your .mlgi script using several methods:

1. **Distance Fields:** Using compute/distance_field to scale resolution based on distance from a reference feature (e.g., a well, fault, or specific geometry).
2. **Analytical Functions:** Using the math command to define $h$ based on coordinates (e.g., $h(x, y, z) \= 0.2z \+ 0.1$).
3. **Discrete Mapping:** Assigning resolution based on material regions or predefined tables.


### 3D Control Variables

Before calling the command, the following global variables must be defined to establish the sampling domain and boundary behavior. Unlike 2D, where a polygon mesh is provided, 3D utilizes these global POI variables to define the volume.

**Domain Limits:** POI_XMIN, POI_YMIN, POI_ZMIN and POI_XMAX, POI_YMAX, POI_ZMAX define the corners of the 3D bounding box.

**Boundary Buffer:**

**IF_POI_EDGE_BUFFER**: Set to **1** to prevent points from being placed too close to the box faces. This is highly recommended when using connect to avoid poor quality elements (slivers) or negative coupling coefficients.

**POI_EDGE_BUFFER**: A multiplier for the buffer width (e.g., **1.0** equals a buffer of width $h$).

### Advanced Options 

There are three optional parameters that are for advanced users only. They are keyword driven and can come in any order beginning as token 8 or 9. The user can specify none, one, two, or all three keyword driven parameters.


**`poisson_seed`** (integer default 1)  is the seed for the random number generator. If once runs this module with the same input, by default each run will give the same result. However, if the user would like to produce multiple realizations with the same input (same input polygon, same resolution, etc.) but a different output mesh, then the user can change the value of poisson_seed for each realization.


**`number_of_samples`** (integer default:10) Number of new candidate points that are sampled around an accepted node. Lower values reduce overall sampling time, but can lead to holes in the final point distribution. Higher value lead to better density and converge but takes more time. 


**`resample_sweeps`** (integer default:1) Number of additional sampling attempts in the domain. If there exists holes in the point distribution, increasing this value should fill in these holes.

It is suggested that the user should have the minimum value of h(x,y)= `h_spacing_scalar`, and then vary resolution by setting values greater than `h_spacing_scalar`. If one intends to have high resolution near objects and features and lower resolution away from the objects, then use of the compute/distance_field is a good way to define h(x,y). 

#### Advanced Option Examples

<pre>
createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.01 / connect / user_h_field_att.mlgi &
      poisson_seed 3 / resample_sweeps 4 / number_of_samples 20

createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.01 / connect / user_h_field_att.mlgi &
      poisson_seed 3

createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.01 / connect / poisson_seed 3
</pre>

<hr>

## EXAMPLES for Uniform and User Defined Resolutions

**Polygon input file: unit_square.poly**
```
4 0 0 0 0 
1 -0.5 -0.5 0
2  0.5 -0.5 0
3  0.5  0.5 0
4 -0.5  0.5 0
```

**LaGriT control file**
```
#
# Mesh a unit square with uniform and variable resolution tringles.
#
# Read polygon from a file.
#
read / avs / unit_square.poly / mo_polygon
#
# Uniform resolution, unit square polygon, vertex spacing 0.05:
#

createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.05 / connect

dump / avs / output01_unit_square_uniform.inp / mo_poisson_pts
cmo / delete / mo_poisson_pts
#
# Variable resolution, unit square polygon, vertex spacing 0.01:
#
# WIDTH_FACTOR is used in user_h_field_att.mlgi
#

define / WIDTH_FACTOR / 10.0
createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.01 / connect / user_h_field_att.mlgi

dump / avs / output02_unit_square_var.inp / mo_poisson_pts
cmo / delete / mo_poisson_pts

define / WIDTH_FACTOR / 20.0
createpts / poisson_disk / 2d_polygon / mo_poisson_pts / mo_polygon &
      / 0.01 / connect / user_h_field_att.mlgi

dump / avs / output03_unit_square_var.inp / mo_poisson_pts
cmo / delete / mo_poisson_pts

finish
```

**Variable resolution defined in LaGriT control file:  user_h_field_att.mlgi**

Used in the example above, the resolution is set using the X coordinate (xic), the user defined POI_H_FACTOR = h_spacing_scalar = 0.01, and a floor function to ensure no values are below h_spacing_scalar.

```
#####################################################
# User defined h field function assignment
#####################################################
#
# h_field_att is already set to POI_H_FACTOR
#
define / MO_H_FIELD / mo_poi_h_field
#
# x**2
math / power / MO_H_FIELD / h_field_att / 1,0,0 / &
               MO_H_FIELD / xic / 2.0
cmo/printatt/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/minmax
# sqrt(x**2)
math / power / MO_H_FIELD / h_field_att / 1,0,0 / &
               MO_H_FIELD / h_field_att / 0.5
cmo / printatt/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/minmax
# POI_H_FACTOR*sqrt(x**2)
math/multiply/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/1,0,0/ &
              MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/ POI_H_FACTOR
math/multiply/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/1,0,0/ &
              MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/ WIDTH_FACTOR
cmo / printatt/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/minmax
math / floor / MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/1,0,0/ &
               MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/POI_H_FACTOR
cmo/printatt/MO_H_FIELD/h_field_att/minmax
cmo / status / brief
#
# As a diagnostic one can output MO_H_FIELD and view
# the h(x,y) attribute that will be used to set resolution.
#
dump / avs / h_field_out.inp / MO_H_FIELD
#
finish

```







 

