---
GENERATOR: 'Mozilla/4.7C-SGI 
[en
] (X11; I; IRIX64 6.5 IP30) 
[Netscape
]'
Generator: Microsoft Word 98
title: a
---

**Building an executable and running LaGriT**

The executable is built by linking a driver routine with the code and
utility libraries. The driver routine must contain a call to initlagrit
and a call to control\_command\_lg and must contain a subroutine called
user\_sub.  The input arguments to initlagrit are:

mode     - set to 'noisy' for output to be echoed to the screen - set to
'silent' for no echo

log\_file - name of log file (if ' ' or '-def-' use default name which
is logx3dgen)  This file will contain a list of commands.

batch\_file - name of batch file (if ' ' or '-def-' use default name
which is outx3dgen)  This file will contain a list of commands and the
error, warning and informational messages generated by the command. 
User\_sub is used to implement user commands (see [Section
IV.C](writing.md))

A sample driver routine is listed below:

 

     program adrivgen

C

C

#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#

C

C PURPOSE -LaGriT driver

C

#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#

C

      implicit none

      integer ierror\_return

C

      call initlagrit('noisy',' ',' ')

C

      call control\_command\_lg(ierror\_return)

C

      stop

      end

C

      subroutine user\_sub(imsgin,xmsgin,cmsgin,msgtyp,nwds,

ierr1)

C

#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#

C

C PURPOSE -

C

C Process user supplied commands

C

C INPUT ARGUMENTS -

C

C imsgin - integer array of tokens returned by parser

C xmsgin - real array of tokens returned by parser

C cmsgin - character array of tokens returned by parser

C msgtyp - int array of token types returned by parser

C nwds - number of tokens returned by parser

C

C OUTPUT ARGUMENTS -

C

C ierr1 - 0 for successful completion - -1 otherwise

C

#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#
#

      character
*32 cmsgin(nwds)

      integer imsgin(nwds),msgtyp(nwds)

      integer nwds,ierr1,lenc

      real
*8 xmsgin(nwds)

C set default error return to fail

      ierr1=-1

C Insert code here to handle user coded subroutines

C For example

C if(cmsgin(1).eq.'my\_cmnd') then

C call my\_rtn(imsgin,xmsgin

C 
* cmsgin,msgtyp,nwds,ierr1)

C else

C ierr1=-1

C endif

C

      return

      end

Sample build scripts for the supported platform are:

Sun OS and Sun Solaris

          forte version 7 compiler:

f90 -O2 -lf77compat -o lagritgen adrivgen.f liblagrit.a libutil.a

if the user wishes to link in user subroutines that contain CRAY type
pointer statements, these routines must be compiled using the f77
compiler and then the .o files linked in with f90:

f77  -c -O2 user\_routines.f

f90 -O2  -lf77compat -o lagritgen adrivgen.f user\_routines.o
liblagrit.a libutil.a

older sun compilers:

f90 -O2 -o lagritgen adrivgen.f liblagrit.a libutil.a

IBM RISC

xlf -g -o lagritgen -qintlog -qcharlen=500 -brename:.fdate,.fdate\_
adrivgen.f

liblagrit.a libutil.a

SGI

f90 -O2 -n32 -r10000 -o lagritgen adrivgen.f liblagrit.a libutil.a

Compile for 64 bit I8 SGI:

f90 -O2 -64 -i8 -o lagritgen adrivgen.f  liblagrit.a libutil.

 

 

HP

f90  +U77 -R8 -lm -o lagritgen adrivgen.f liblagrit.a libutil.a

DEC

COMPAQ compiler

           fort -i8 -O -fast -pipeline -transform\_loops -o lagritgen 
adrivgen.f  liblagrit.a libutil.a

 

LINUX

ABSOFT compiler

f90 -YTEXT\_NAMES=LCS  -o lagritgen adrivgen.f fdate.f liblagrit.a
libutila. -lm -lu77

where fdate.f is

subroutine fdate(string)

character
*(
*) string

call fdate\_(string)

return

end

 

 

To execute, use standard unix file redirection for standard input and
output. LaGriT will produce two additional files, outx3dgen and
logx3dgen. The names of these files can be changed by supplying the
names as arguments in the call to initlagrit.  These files contain
detailed output information and the list of commands respectively.
LaGriT may also be run interactively in which case the user will be
prompted to enter commands from the workstation.
