---
GENERATOR: 'Mozilla/4.51C-SGI 
[en
] (X11; I; IRIX 6.5 IP32) 
[Netscape
]'
Generator: Microsoft Word 98
title: GENIEE
---

 

 **GENIEE**

  OPTION1:

  Generate element connectivity list (jtet) that gives neighbor
  information. Element connectivity is maintained by LaGriT, but can
  also be generated by the user with this command.

 
  The jtet attribute contains for each facet of an element the
  neighboring element and its local face.  For 3D grids the jtet
  relationship is reflexsive; each element-face pair has exactly one
  neighboring element-face pair.  For 2D grids the jtet relationship
  can include cycles; a triangle or quad edge may have many edge
  neighbors.  In this case the jtet is constructed as a closed cycle
  where the jtet of one element-edge pair will be a neighboring
  element-edge pair whose jtet wil be another neighboring element-edge
  pair and so on until all neighbors are included in the cycle exactly
  once.
 
  The jtet is constructed by looking at matching node numbers and will
  use the parent nodes if they exist.  Faces with matching node
  coordinates but different node numbers will not be matched.

  For hybrid grids that contain degenerate elements there are two
  options.  If the mesh object attribute jtet\_reduce\_nnd exists and
  is set to 1, then faces with repeated node numbers will be matched
  to faces with the same numbers but not repeated.  For example if a
  degenerate hex has a face 1 1 2 3 and there is an element (prism,
  tet, pyramid) with face 1 2 3 and if jtet\_reduce\_nnd is 1, then
  these faces will be matched.  Otherwise they will be marked as
  external boundary faces.

 
  OPTION2:

  Attempt to make the topological orientation (itet array) of a
  triangle, quad, or hybrid tri/quad mesh consistent so that shared
  edges are traversed in opposite directions. This is only possible in
  a mesh with jtet\_loop\_max = 2. For networks with jtet\_loop\_max
  &gt; 2 there may not be a configuration that meets the goal.
 
  This command could also be used to flip the normals of a mesh that
  is already consistent. For example:

  geniee / -def- / 2dnormal / -1
 
  *Note:* For the case where a mesh is not completely edge connected,
  this module will detect that all elements have not been tested and
  will warn the user and suggest a command line syntax to test
  elements not visited.

  

  *Note:* Code not set up for a mesh with parent/child chains. When
  check is made, it compares child points. When permutation of
  elements is done, only itet and jtet arrays are updated.


 **FORMAT:**

  OPTION 1:

  **geniee**

  OPTION 2:

  **geniee** / **cmoname** / **2dnormal** /
  **reference\_element\_number** / 
[addatt
]

  **cmoname** - name of mesh object to operate on. Can be /  / or
  /-def-/

  **2dnormal** - keyword to cause this module to execute

  **reference\_element\_number** - default = 1

  

  This is the element number that will be the reference element that
  all other elements are compared to. If this parameter is a negative
  number, the orientation of element number
  abs(reference\_element\_number) is reversed and then used as the
  reference.

  

  **reference\_element\_number** = 0 will check and report if
  orientation is consistent, but will not do any flipping.

  

  **addatt** - if the keyword addatt is included, two new arrays are
  added to the mesh object.

  **ipath** - The order in which elements are visited.

  **ifflip** -    0 if the element orientation was NOT changed

                  1 if the element orientation was changed

  


 EXAMPLE:

  geniee / cmo / 2dnormal

  

  Check orientation of tri/quad elements and if their orientation is
  different than element 1, then flip their orientation.

  

  geniee / cmo/2dnormal/-1

  

  Flip the orientation of element one and then make the rest of the
  mesh consistent with element 1. If the mesh object is already
  consistent, then this command will reverse the orientation of all
  the elements in a surface (tri, quad) mesh.

  

  geniee / -def- / 2dnormal / 17

  

  Check orientation of tri/quad elements and if their orientation is
  different than element 17, then flip their orientation.

  

  geniee / cmo / 2dnormal / 0

  

  Check orientation of tri/quad elements and if their orientation is
  different than element 1, report the difference but do not change
  the mesh object orientation.

  

  geniee / cmo / 2dnormal / 0 / addatt

  

  Check orientation of tri/quad elements and if their orientation is
  different than element 1, report the difference but do not change
  the mesh object orientation. Create two new attributes. ipath is the
  search path the algorithm followed through the mesh. ifflip reports
  the orientation of each element as compared to element 1.

  

  

